---
layout: post
title: "Annual Plan 2019"
date: 2019-03-13 21:04:37 -0500
modified_date: 2020-10-02 21:09:53 -0500
categories: ["Articles"]
tags: ["annual-plan", "goals", "learning"]
image: "/assets/uploads/2019/03/Annual-Plan-2019-fb.webp"
---

## Mission Statement

Learn, Teach, and be Positive. Learn new technologies in a methodical manner taking notes and documentation to refer
    back to in the future. Teach others how to improve themselves and their knowledge of software development. Create a
    positive environment that is conducive to learning and problem solving.

## Professional Goals

1. Write 1-2 articles per week for sharing on social networks (LinkedIn and Twitter). If we want to focus on
            one article for a week or two, this should be encouraged so that we place quality over quantity.
2. Learn React where it matters in our every day work. This means digging into the new Gutenberg editor in
            WordPress and making it a normal part of our day to work in react. What we can do is create a UI plugin that
            will replace the Advanced Custom Fields UI components we currently use.
3. Learn CSS Grid. This has been a long time coming. We have been able to write for CSS Grid for a while now
            and the current build system supports it. Our goal should be to execute a full site build not using
            Foundation, but building the over all layout with Grid and Flexbox.
4. Find 1-3 open source projects to start contributing to. By the end of the year I want to have made a least 5
            pull requests to projects that make a difference in other developers workflows. This seems small, but is
            better than not providing some goal rather than simply telling myself and not executing.
5. Currently, I call myself a Web Developer. I want to change my mind set by calling myself a Software
            Developer who build tools and applications using web technologies. In the future we can plan goals for
            learning new languages outside of web development, but lets keep this years goal simple. The achievement of
            this goal depends on achieving the other goals on this list.
